# C-ML: Machine Learning in C

This project is a testament to the power and simplicity of the C programming language. It revisits the roots of programming, leveraging the raw performance and control that C provides to implement machine learning algorithms from scratch.

The goal of this project is not just to create machine learning models, but to understand the underlying principles and mechanics by building them from the ground up. This journey takes us through the intricacies of data structures, algorithmic complexity, and numerical computation, all in the context of the C language.

## Utils
Every useful tool for all projects are stored under utils directory:
- [´src/utils/´](src/utils/)
  - [`utils.h`](src/KNN/utils.h): Contains utility functions and structures.
  - [`vector.h`](src/KNN/vector.h): Contains vector-related functions and structures.
  - [`point.h`](src/KNN/point.h): Contains point-related functions and structures.
  - [`dataset.h`](src/KNN/dataset.h): Contains dataset-related functions and structures.
  - [`color.h`](src/KNN/color.h): Contains color-related functions and structures.

These scripts and methods are shared among all sub projects of this repository.

## K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) Project

The first stop in this journey is the implementation of the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) algorithm for classification. This simple yet powerful algorithm forms the cornerstone of many machine learning systems.

The KNN project is organized as follows:

- `src/KNN/`: Contains the source code for the KNN algorithm. Key files include:
  - [`knn.c`](src/KNN/knn.c): The main entry point for the program.
  - [`KNN.h`](src/KNN/KNN.h): Header file for the KNN algorithm.
  - [`k_d_tree.h`](src/KNN/k_d_tree.h): Contains k-d tree-related functions and structures.
- `build/`: Contains build-related files generated by CMake.

Best scores:
```
  Accuracy: 0.970588
  Precision:
    Class 0: 1.00
    Class 1: 0.933333
    Class 2: 0.961538
```
## Decision Tree Project

The Decision Tree project is another key part of this journey. Decision Trees are a type of Supervised Machine Learning where the data is continuously split according to a certain parameter. The tree can be explained by two entities, namely decision nodes and leaves. The leaves are the decisions or the final outcomes. And the decision nodes are where the data is split.

The Decision Tree project is organized as follows:

- `src/DT/`: Contains the source code for the Decision Tree algorithm. Key files include:
  - [`dt.c`](src/DT/dt.c): The main entry point for the program.
  - [`dt.h`](src/DT/dt.h): Header file for the Decision Tree algorithm, which includes the definition of the `DT_Classifier` structure and the `dt_classifier_fit` and `dt_classifier_run` functions.
  - `configs/`: Contains configuration files for the Decision Tree algorithm.

To run the Decision Tree algorithm, you need to call the `dt_classifier_run` function. This function initializes a decision tree and a dataset, loads configurations from a YAML file, splits the dataset into training and testing sets, builds the decision tree using the training set, and evaluates the decision tree using the testing set.

The building of the decision tree is done by the `dt_classifier_fit` function. This function recursively splits the dataset into two parts according to a threshold that maximizes the information gain, until all data points in each part belong to the same class.

Please refer to the source code in [`dt.c`](src/DT/dt.c) and [`dt.h`](src/DT/dt.h) for more details.

Best scores:
```
  Accuracy: 0.955556
  Precision:
    Class 0: 1.00
    Class 1: 0.90
    Class 2: 0.941176 
```

## Deep Learning Project

The Deep Learning project is an ambitious undertaking to implement neural networks from scratch in C. This project demonstrates the power and flexibility of C in handling complex mathematical operations and memory management required for deep learning algorithms.
The Deep Learning project is organized as follows:

- `src/DeepLearning/`: Contains the source code for the Deep Learning implementation. Key files include:

  - [`dl.c`](src/DeepLearning/dl.c): The main entry point for the program.
  - [`models.h`](src/DeepLearning/models.h): Header file for the Deep Learning Models implementation.
  - [`layers.h`](src/DeepLearning/layers.h): Header file for the Deep Learning Layers implementation.
  - [`act_fn.h`](src/DeepLearning/act_fn.h): Header file for the Activation Functions implementation.
  - [`loss.h`](src/DeepLearning/loss.h): Header file for the Loss implementation. 
  - [`optimizer.h`](src/DeepLearning/optimizer.h): Header file for the Optimizer implementation.

This project implements a modular neural network architecture, allowing for the creation of various network topologies. It includes implementations of:

- Feedforward layers
- Activation functions (ReLU, Sigmoid, Tanh)
- Optimization algorithms (Stochastic Gradient Descent, Adam)
- Loss functions (Mean Squared Error, Cross-Entropy)

The neural network can be trained using backpropagation and supports both classification and regression tasks.
To use the Deep Learning implementation, you need to define your network architecture, prepare your dataset, and then use the provided functions to train and evaluate your model. Detailed usage instructions can be found in the source code comments.
Performance metrics and example use cases will be added as the project progresses.
Future plans for this project include implementing more advanced architectures like Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) and Long Short-Term Memory networks (LSTMs), as well as optimizing the code for better performance on large datasets.

## Building and Running the Project

This project uses CMake for building. To build and run the project, navigate to the project root directory and follow the instructions in the "Building the Project" section.

## Future Directions

This project is just the beginning. The roadmap includes implementing other machine learning algorithms in C, such as decision trees, neural networks, and support vector machines. Stay tuned for more!

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. If you're interested in machine learning and love C, this is the project for you. Please submit a pull request with any enhancements.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).